1. INTRO-
Healthy sleep also helps the body remain healthy and stave off diseases. 
Most adults require between seven and nine hours of nightly sleep. 
Children and teenagers need substantially more sleep

2. WHY DO WE SLEEP-
Work schedules, day-to-day stressors, a disruptive bedroom environment, and medical conditions can all prevent us from receiving enough sleep. 

A healthy diet and positive lifestyle habits can help ensure an adequate amount of sleep each night – 
but for some, chronic lack of sleep may be the first sign of a sleep disorder.

It lets your body and brain repair, restore, and reenergize.

This clock operates on a 24-hour cycle known as the circadian rhythm.
After waking up from sleep, you’ll become increasingly tired throughout the day. 
These feelings will peak in the evening leading up to bedtime.

3. BENEFITS OF SLEEP-
Brain clears out harmful toxins while we are asleep.
Repairs muscles, synthesises protein and helps in tissue growth
Sleep lets our mind to concentrate, think clearly, and process memories.
It cuts the risk of developinging unnecessary body fats.

4.INFLUENCERS OF SLEEP-
One of the most important chemicals involved in this process is melatonin, a hormone that makes us feel drowsy.
As natural light disappears in the evening, the body will release melatonin, a hormone that induces drowsiness.

5.STAGES OF SLEEP-
NREM stands for Non-Rapid Eye Movement sleep
REM stands for Rapid Eye Movement sleep

stage1- this stage consists of light sleep. Muscles relaxes, heart rate and breathing slow down. Lasts for several mins
stage2- Here eye movements will ceases and your body temperature decreases. Longest stage
stage3-Heartbeat, breathing, and brain wave activity all reach their lowest levels, and the muscles are as relaxed as they will be. 
stage4-As the name suggests, your eyes will move back and forth rather quickly under your eyelids. 
Breathing rate, heart rate, and blood pressure will begin to increase.
 Dreaming will typically occur during REM sleep, and your arms and legs will become paralyzed.

6.SLEEP AMOUNT-
The right amount of sleep largely depends on the age. 
The National Sleep Foundation recommends the following daily sleep allotment for different age groups.

7. HARMFUL EFFECTS OF SLEEPLESSNESS-
lack of sleep has been linked to a higher risk for certain diseases and medical conditions.
These include obesity, type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, heart disease, stroke, poor mental health, and early death.
Lack of sleep hampers our thinking process which effects our decision making ability.

TIPS TO GET A PROPER AMOUNT OF SLEEP-
A few tips to improve your sleep:

Making a habit of going to bed and waking up at the same time each day.
Exercising 20 to 30 minutes a day but no later than a few hours before going to bed.
Avoiding caffeine and nicotine late in the day and alcoholic drinks before bed.
Relaxing before bed with a warm bath, reading, or another soothing routine.
Darkness or dim light helps us relax more and get a good sleep faster.
The blue light emitted by cell phone screen restrains the production of melatonin
 
Following these small changes in the routine can help us sleep better and maintain a healthy lifestyle.

THANK YOU